This site is built on Zurb Foundation. 
To make it work one must install Foundation also. 
It uses the Orbit Slideshow plugin and
 Foundation's responsive (fluid) grid. 
It also uses a combination of Foundations "show-on-foo" 
and "hide-on-foo" directives and vanilla media queries to change 
the site to a mobile-appropriate version when the 
screen gets narrow.

In retrospect I might not have made the mobile version 
quite so dramatically different, but perhaps because 
of differences in navigation style it is justified that way.

Updating the content of the site is not too hard. 
There are a couple of different categories of content: 

The Slides:

The slides are images, which should be all the same size, 
at 700x420 with a four pixel wide border, for a total of 708x428.
I may have screwed up when cutting them down to size so they 
aren't quite all those dimensions; I'm not sure it matters to 
get it precisely right, though one might get glitches of another
slide showing up beneath if one slide is smaller than the others. 

The reason I am talking about cutting the slides down to size is 
that they were generated by taking screenshots of html versions 
of the slides (see the manifest file, or look at the URL slide1.html,
slide2.html, etc...) The reason I did it that way was so that 
I could reasonably easily make changes to the slide, make sure 
it matched the look of the site, etc, while at the same time also 
not having to deal with all the headaches of responsive HTML slides.
I went with image slides in the final site for simplicity and robustness. 
I know it would have been cooler if the whole final page was HTML, 
but the budget was limited and I didn't want to get too precious
or get myself too tied up in knots over this small component. 

One could easily follow the template of the files slide1.html, 
slide2.html, etc. to make new slides. I think the plan is that 
the slideshow 

 The Site Content. 

The second half of the front page is a set of five themes 
of the book. There is an image, a heading, and a quote. 
This pattern of image, heading and content is echoed in 
the rest of the site as well. Almost the whole site follows
this pattern, so the css classes are fairly consistent. 
In general, the content is meant to drop out in the 
mobile version, to save space and not show a bunch of tiny 
text that nobody is going to stand squinting at their phone
to read anyway, leaving only the picture and the heading. 
The images are responsive and should resize fairly nicely
to become phone-sized, and the heading becomes a caption. 

The only exception to the rule that the content falls out 
is the "Buy" and "Contact" sections, where we might want
someone with a phone to get the directions to either Buy 
the book or Contact the site with questions or concerns. 
Now, since the Paypal page which allows one to buy the 
book is sadly not mobile-friendly, it is unlikely someone 
would actually buy from their phone, but they might like 
to be told how anyway. 

In order to keep the content from disappearing in those 
sections, there is a special class ".inneraction" which 
is different from the normal content class ".innerbody" 
The idea is that content which describes an action should 
have different rules so mobile users can see it. 

The heading for each section of content has a keyword
which is rendered in Grobold Green. The rest of the site 
(including the text in the slide images) is Futura PT from Typekit.
This font was chosen because I thought it was akin to Grobold.
Typekit's verion isn't my favorite incarnation of Futura, 
but its reasonably nice and echo's Grobolds' aesthetic. 
I generally like the combination of Grobold and Futura --- 
it is open, modern and clean, and kid-friendly without being 
too juvenile. I wish I liked Typekit's particular Futura better. 
(I think the one that showed up on my first version of the 
slide images was the incarnation of Futura installed locally 
on my computer, which I did like better.)

Menus

The one choice I made in the design which I ended up perhaps 
regretting is the shortage of menu space. At first I thought 
it would be a one-page site, with links to external blogs 
and amazon pages to buy the book, etc. So I thought there
was plenty of space, and the challenge was how to fill it. 
So I came up with these "Crystal icons", which are 
part of a huge icon set:
http://webtreats.mysitemyway.com/154-crystal-clear-bubble-social-media-icons/
that I thought to perch on the menu bar and direct the visitor 
to the external pages. I really liked that icon set because 
it is (a) huge (b) monochrome, so it can be adapted to any 
color scheme --- I turned mine green to match the edging 
(c) versatile, because directions exist online to make new ones:
http://tutorials.mysitemyway.com/crystal-clear-bubble-icons/
So I went a bit wild with the crystal icons, turning them 
into a secondary menu, and also adapting them for the slideshow
left and right buttons. 

The only problem is that I learned later that the intention 
was to have not a one-or-two page site, but a multipage site, 
with internal blog, about page, links to fun stuff and games, 
etc. etc. There might not be enough room on the menu bar to 
link to all of those things without getting rid of my beloved 
crystal icons. 

Anyway, if more room on the menu bar is really needed, one 
just has to get rid of the "secondary" menu group and allocate
more room to the "primary" group (by changing the number of 
columns alloted to each in the HTML. 

Another small note about menus: I have a tiny footer in the 
phone version that seems to link to Roger, +1 and Like pages. 
But it doesn't actually do anything, because that's just 
a suggestion. The overall design is actually notably footer-less, 
except for the auxiliary mobile phone menu. If there was really 
a need for more space for more menu items, one might want to rethink 
my design that, for the most part, ignores the footer. 

One place where the lack of the footer shows: my placement of "contact" 
sections is rather clumsy. It doesn't really deserve a page by itself, 
there is no footer space for it, so I tack it on the end of content pages. 
Then again, I like the cute baby image I paired it with, even though 
the pairing is thoroughly gratuitious. 

On the other hand, that may have been a result of a another choice 
of mine which results from my general attitude that requiring scrolling 
from a user is not dire, but too-small text and not enough white space 
really is. I erred on the side of wide-open space and fairly large text, 
and if that means it takes a while to get down the page, so be it. 

The Images

At the risk of violating copyright, I lifted a number of Jared's beautiful 
drawings for the site (I think its fair use, especially since I am trying 
to convince people to buy his book.) The whole aesthetic of the site is 
cartoonish, and this keeps the images thematically unified. 

I also tried to make the showcase images that go down the left side 
of the page reasonably similar in presentation --- they usually fade 
out to white along the edges in one way or another. This caused some 
difficulty in making it so that the ones which faded out radially 
would look visually aligned with the more square ones. I don't think 
I was completely succesful in this, but to the degree it worked it 
required some padding of the squarer ones with whitespace on the left 
side. 

Links, Hover state, etc. 

I didn't give as much attention as perhaps I should have to the link 
colors, active states, hover states, etc. My one link in body text is
a rather banal blue, but since it matched the book it was refering to 
I didn't bother changing it. 

Favicon

When I was developing this page, I had a bunch of links open, and it began 
to really bug me that Ryan and Robbie had no favicon. Having a favicon is 
one of those little things that is easy to miss, but is one of those little 
details that separates the amateur from the professional sites. 
So I whipped up an attempt by taking the R&R initials from the logo 
and running them through a favicon generator. 
I was hoping the blue yellow and green splotch would be recognizable and 
distinctive even at really small size. I'm not sure if this turned out to
be true. I'm also not sure if this was a problem with the concept or the 
implementation. 

Cross Browser Testing

I have only done informal cross-browser testing. I did install the
package of multiple copies of IE, and confirmed that the basic
structure does not completely disintegrate in middling-old versions of
IE like 7 and 8, though it isn't very pretty. Of course, IE 6 is
hopeless. 

I sweated the mobile (narrow window) styles more, and my CSS file
makes a lot of media queries. There may be a litte bit of instability
at the "breaking" width, i.e. 767 pixels, but I tried to fix that too.

 I have not tested this on actual mobile phones, only on narrowed
desktop simulations of them. Real cross browser testing might require
a better setup than I have.

There are some provisions in the CSS file for making special styles
for older versions of IE, which for the most part I haven't taken
advantage of. A designer who knows more than I do about the history of
cross-browser hacking could probably use these hooks to better effect
than I.

Performance

This is a rather image heavy site, with a big background image. 
The background image wasn't my idea --- I copied it from the beta 
site. At first it was horrifically slow to load, and I doubted 
the whole design on that account, but I jpeg optimized it a whole 
bunch, which made it marginally less pretty but a whole bunch faster
to load. I really like that background image, with Seattle on one 
side and China on the other; it echos the theme of multiculturalism 
that is touched on many times in the text. I like its pretty yellow 
sky, which would be overwhelming if it were the entire background, but 
as the sky is quite cheery. And then the transition down to green 
helps pull together my headlines, edging and other green accents
throughout the site. The background is expensive, but I'd hate to 
lose it for performance reasons. 

I could have installed a lazy image loader if I had been really concerned 
about performance, but it would have been one more moving piece, 
and I was already upset that something that was supposed to be a 
quick design job had gotten bogged down in debugging. So I didn't. 
It might be a top thing I would suggest to someone who might want 
to spruce up the site. 

The image slideshow is also a bit of a heavy weight on loading time, 
but I installed a little "loading" state in the CSS (I think it works!). 
Another thing that could be done is transform my image slides to html
slides with image backgrounds. In theory Orbit can manage this, though 
in practice my experiments with it found that it made the responsiveness 
of the site much more fragile, so I abandoned that line of investigation. 

Another thing that might improve the initial load time is to break
apart the big front page into two pages. Less scrolling too. But 
I really like how the slideshow leads into this big headline saying 
"The Ryan and Robbie books tell the story of..." I think it will 
keep someone reading in a way that another page that one finds by 
clicking a button really wouldn't. 


 
